The tape is rolling, so it's all on record now. Alright. And I obviously have
your biography, but I'll have to ask some things for the fans. Okay, tell us a
little bit how you grew up and what might have influenced you to write science
fiction. Well, I grew up in a suburb of Cleveland called Fairview Park and I
think I was influenced to write science fiction by the fact that when I was a
kid, I'd go into the public library once or twice a week. And they had a very
small children's section. And it wasn't long before I'd devoured, you know, all
the Hardy Boys and the Tom Swifts. And I went to the librarian and said, hey,
look, let me into the older section, okay, because there's nothing left here for
me to read. And she took me over to this row of books that had rockets on their
spines and said, have you read any of these? I said, no. What is it? She said,
it's called science fiction. Why don't you give it a try? and that pretty much
started a lifelong love affair with science fiction right there in six months
had cleaned out that library but by then i was a newspaper carrier and was
making enough money every week to go out and buy four or five paperbacks those
were the days and you know it just never stopped got into college still reading
five ten science fiction paperbacks a week and realized my tastes, I think,
matured a little, and I started saying, my God, I could write better than this.
I said that so often that one of my roommates said, Kevin, I'd have put up or
shut up, and I started writing junior, senior year of college. I discovered it
was a lot harder than I had thought, but by, I think it was 1973, I'd I made my
first short story sale to Analog and followed it up a couple of years later with
another and decided, well, you know, this should sort of be working for a
living.
Okay, you lived in the Orient, different places in the Orient for some time, and
your major was Chinese studies. How did you get interested in Chinese studies
and in the Orient, and has that influenced your science fiction in any way?
Well, to start with, I wound up in the Orient because my father joined the Peace
Corps in 1966 and trucked the entire family off to Seoul, Korea, well, I was
there for two years. The rest of the family was there for four. This is my
junior and senior year in high school. I went to a small missionary school in
Seoul, Korea, Seoul Foreign School. Because it was Peace Corps, we were sort of
under orders to avoid the American community. We all got extensive language
training.
We lived in the Korean community. After two years of daily language lessons and
all, I'd become reasonably fluent in Korean. And when I graduated high school, I
had this dream that I would become the world's foremost American authority on
Korea. So when I applied to colleges, I applied to universities that had good,
solid Korean studies programs. Yale was one of them. They accepted me. And I,
you know, accepted them joyfully. Came back from Seoul to New Haven,
Connecticut. and discovered that over the summer they'd killed their entire
Korean studies program, which sort of left me out on a limb. I'd cast around for
the nearest related subject, and that was Chinese studies. I figured I could,
since most of Korean history is actually written in Chinese rather than in
Korean, I figured, well, OK, I'll learn Chinese now. And spent four years
discovering that I was not cut out to be an academic,
Did this experience in the Orient and in studying other cultures, does that have
any influence as far as your writing something like alien cultures or what it's
like to be among aliens? Very much. It's hit me on a couple of different levels.
One is this is more true, I think, of Americans who live in Asia than those who
live in Europe or South America because in Asia, you're very conscious of the
fact that you're a foreigner. I mean, you're racially different. You do not have
black hair and dark brown eyes. Everywhere you walk, people look at you.
Especially in some of the more rural areas of the country like Korea, which the
last time they saw an American was during the war, 20 years ago, 20 years before
I was there. they are unabashed in their curiosity and it really engenders the
self-consciousness in the American to constantly be stared at to have people
touching to see if you feel the same as a Korean does so I think that's
affecting my science fiction writing in how a person feels when he's among
aliens at the same time Asian languages and cultures are significantly different
from Western cultures in terms of the way they view almost everything. And
although it's not really an alien psychology, it's sufficiently different that
it gives me sort of an insight into how a sentient being from Rigel or whatever
could view things differently, could take a really far-out perspective on
something we just take for granted. When you first started writing science
fiction and then other fiction, you wrote short stories. How long did you write
short stories before you then moved to the novel form, and how did you make that
transition? Oh, it seems like forever.
Oh I think I wrote shorts heavily for a good four years. I started really
writing in earnest seriously in the summer of 72 after I graduated from college
and that was I was back at Neysha at that time. I was teaching. I had a lot of
free time. And I turned out a lot of stories in 72, 73, came back to the States
in 74, and I made a couple fails. I thought I could do better. Kept at it. And I
guess between 72 and 76, I probably wrote close to 100 short stories. And I
was... By 75, 76, I was selling at a respectable clip I began to realize that on
the one hand I mean from a purely mercenary point of view you can't make a
living writing short stories at least not science fiction short stories there
are markets out there that want short stories that need a lot of them but they
don't pay enough and so I started for financial reasons looking at the novel
probably as early as late 74 early 75 but I was scared for a long time it
terrified me to think of tackling a novel a novel is big you know a short story
you go 5,000 words and you say end and that's it 20 pages all nice and neat you
can retype 20 pages in an afternoon you can write the whole thing in a week if
you really push yourself but a novel I mean that's Mount Everest so I put off
writing the novel until I think it was 75, 76 before I even started admitting,
hey, it's time to get going on this. And even then I dawdled for more.
Finally people were sensing my reluctance to tackle this and a lot of my friends
started giving me trouble. Hey, you know, come on, it's time, you should do it.
So I did. Wrote Bandersnatch, sold it to Benson Books, and been writing novels
other since.
Bandersnatch was written in first person, which is usually kind of a hard way to
write. How did you decide to do it that way? Well, first person is a real hard
way to write well, but it's a very easy way in which to write.
Bandersnatch might possibly have been a better book had it been written in third
person but first person just seemed so natural I'd written, a lot of the stories
I'd written in first person and I just felt that I could have a better control
of my material if I tried it in first person I don't think it was completely
successful One of your talents which really shows through in Bandersnatch is the
use of slang and invented language. Do you work hard on this, or does this come
naturally? Bandersnatch, well, no, it does not come naturally. Some words, some
terms come very easily. When you're working on a 300-page manuscript and you've
read it 82 times, certain words just sort of rise up out of the text at you. But
Bandersnatch was a very deliberate attempt to put the swine in there. I went to,
I think it was the second or third draft, and I realized this lacked a
sufficient feel of the future. It just felt much too 1970-ish. And one of the
reasons was the way that people were talking to each other. So I said, OK, look,
let's invent a future slime. It's not an original concept. Lots of people have
done it. Lots of people have done it a lot better. But I sat down, and I had
this social subgroup. And I figured, OK, what kind of slanguage are these people
going to develop? What are they going to have slang words for? We're talking
outlaws here. they're going to have words for police and each other and criminal
acts, and I tried to almost extrapolate some of the words from the way they are
today. Other words I tried to take off of their origin, others sort of
acronymized. EDRA III, the locale where much of the book takes place, came from
the federal dependence resettlement area, which FDRA, and pretty soon it's EDRA.
LEAPERS, one of the flying terms for police, came from the law enforcement
agency personnel, and things like that.
This book seemed almost angry Bandersnatch and then the other people where you
was this anything heavily psychological about this or is this the way it came
out well I think it came out that way for two reasons first the pace at which I
wrote it it took a long time to write but I wrote almost entirely on weekends
and I try and knock took off 10 pages a day every weekend. When you write at
that speed, I think emotions just come more naturally to the surface. Also the
characters in there are, for the most part, very angry characters. There's
societies, outcasts, exiled to this artificial peninsula up there in Lake Erie,
off of Ashtabula. I think at the time I felt that these people would be
naturally bitter, angry, resemble types that loses. And loses either tend to be
totally innocuous or angry.
One of the characters, Baby Bear, was a real cuddly animal sidekick, which you
seem to have in other books as well. Do you particularly like animals, and is
there anything that particularly inspired him?
I inspired Baby Bear. Baby Bear actually came about almost entirely by accident.
I had had Bandersnatch wandering through this alien jungle,
and I realized he needed like a... The way the story was going, he had to have
this climactic battle sequence with a natural force, some sort of wild animal,
and I hadn't had any wild animals in there. They were really big enough for him.
All of a sudden, off the page came this monstrous, bear-like animal that almost
loomed up before him and started attacking him. Well, he won, and there I was
with a dead bear on the ground. Somehow my fingers kept going, and there was a
sound from the distance, and it was the cub. The next thing I knew, he had a
sidekick, as you put it. That was just accidental, really. I think it worked. I
think, from a reader's interest point of view, I think it helps when the
protagonist has a sidekick of some sort.
When you're writing science fiction, well, you know, why not give the hero an
alien sidekick, Sam in the McGill Feighan series? I think it lets you do a little
exploring into alien psychology and at the same time, it lets you keep making
sort of mirror-like observations of human culture. So I find it fun and useful
and it seems to work. Mayflies then appeared and I noticed that it's coming out
in a second edition with a different cover and everything. That must be
gratifying. There is. There are, of course, a lot of generationship ideas in
science fiction, but this was the first one I'd read that was from the
computer's point of view. I'm sure I can't hear you. Okay. My engineer cautioned
to me I should talk less loudly so I'll tell him to screw it.
Mayflies was basically, well, I'd read a lot of life ship or Generationship
science fiction stories and books, of course, there's a lot of them, but this
was the first one I had read from the computer's point of view. Yeah. Was that
the intent, to do that from the computer's point of view, or a man who, well, a
disembodied brain, basically? Mayfly started out as...
Actually, it was a workshop exercise. I was, at the time, in a workshop here in
New Haven. And we had to do a, oh, I forget, a two-paragraph description of
someone. And I described this character, Metaclura, who took more than the two
paragraphs to describe. He ran on for about a page, and all of a sudden, he
died. And I took it into the workshop, and people said, well, yes, those are
nice paragraphs and very good description, but, boy, what have you done here?
You know, you've created a character and then killed him. What a waste. I got
angry and said, well, you know, maybe I've killed him, but it's not a waste. But
I can make something of him. And they said, we dare you. And pretty soon,
Mayflies is underway with me trying to prove you could write a book about a
protagonist who died on page one. and have that protagonist a very vital part of
the entire story rather than just a haunting memory. The only way to do that
was, of course, to somehow keep him alive. One thing led to another, and the
next thing I knew, Metaclura was a central computer on The Good Shit Madflower.
Do those kinds of workshops help one write science fiction either to get started
or to discuss pros and kinds of stories? I think they can be very useful.
It's really hard to find someone who can read and criticize science fiction
effectively. The concepts of science fiction are so different from the concepts
of the mystery genre or the romance genre, whatever. and also as any if any
writer can tell you good friends who aren't writers and close relatives and like
that when they read your stuff there's an implicit bias in the way they read it
they like you you're their friend their spouse their you know first cousin once
removed whatever but they like you and it influences the way they read your work
it influences the way they comment on your work to you And you don't get honest
feedback. You get rose-colored feedback, which is really flattering to the ego,
but it doesn't help you sell. When you go into a workshop, here are people who
maybe they know you, maybe they don't, maybe they like you, maybe they don't.
But they know writing. They know science fiction in this particular instance.
And they can say, okay, look, you made a nice start of the story, but it doesn't
work because of this, that, and the other. And these are things that probably
your friends and relatives wouldn't see to begin with. And if they did, they'd
downplay it. They'd say, well, this is a little weak here, but don't worry about
it. It's a great story. We love you. You can't really become a selling writer
with that sort of critical feedback. It doesn't help. And that, I think, is
where workshops can be very useful. They can also be destructive when all the
egos are on parade and people start slashing each other up just for the sheer
joy of cutting and watching somebody else ride. In that case, the workshop is
destructive and not worth it. Okay, I'm glad I asked that. Back to Mayflies. Was
Mayflies your title? My original title for Mayflies was Mayflies and Other
Spaced Spirits, which if you look it up in books and print is still the official
title. But the sales department at Berkeley thought that this was a little,
sounded too much like an anthology, they said. And anthologies weren't selling.
there was a market for novels but simply not for collections of short stories
and they said look let's cut the rest of the title cut it back to one word short
punchy no confusion over what the book is and as every writer knows the writer
really doesn't have much choice and the sales department says change the title
so I went along with it and they washed it it I haven't yet had a title accepted
by a sales department. I've written six, published six books, and the sales
department has changed the title on every one of them. Okay, that brings up,
well, not the next book, but the next one to talk about, because I want to do
the other three together, but War of Omission, what was its original title? The
original title of War of Omission was Lithian Lament, which is now the title of
one of the subsections. I thought that was really artsy evocative nice in the
sales department nah
in decisions like this the sales department always has the final facts I
remember reading in Locus that there was a forthcoming book by that title and I
wondered what happened to it yeah that's where it went ok this book again it's
not, this isn't first person but it's multiple viewpoints which I understand is
just about as hard to write viewpoints of several different people. Yeah. I was
trying something and what I tried to do in there was sort of inspired by one of
those masterpiece theater PBS shows. At this point, I'm embarrassed to say I
can't remember the play or the characters or the actors or anything.
But the first episode was told entirely from one person's point of view and the
second from the point of view of someone else who was also a minor character in
that first episode. So it went through the series. And I said, geez, it could be
fun to try this. So I very deliberately picked out, I think, eight major
characters in there, gave each of them one section of the book to be the
protagonist in that section, and had them appear elsewhere as minor characters
until the end is supposed to rotate back and forth through all eight different
heads. I was trying to view this cataclysm
from as many different viewpoints as I could while still maintaining storyline
continuity. Did it work? Yeah, I thought it was great. It was very interesting.
I like that particular approach myself, and I just don't see it very often.
Okay, as in Bandersnatch, the society that you portray is pretty much strangled
by a burgeoning bureaucracy. Is this a personal view? Do you fear that? Yes, it
is. I really see it happening not only here but pretty much everywhere where
governments have been in power for any length of time. I think it's the nature
of the beast, a bureaucracy of any sort, whether it's governmental, corporate,
academic. it achieves a goal beyond its stated purpose or it acquires a new goal
in that that goal is to survive to perpetuate itself to expand to get fat and
strong and secure it goes all the way back to Parkinson's Law work expands until
the time available and when it has you hire two assistants
I think this is an inevitable trend in any bureaucracy whether it's western
style capitalism
Maoist communism one of Mao's big campaigns was against bureaucracy he was
constantly railing against the way that no matter what he said no matter what he
did the bureaucracy kept growing It kept issuing new regulations and new rules,
and here he was, the most powerful man in China, and he couldn't affect the
bureaucracy. So, yeah, that's a very personal point with me.
If Bandersnatch was a 70s novel, well, certainly World War Mission was a 60s
novel, and I'm just about exactly two years older than you are, so I went
through those times and remembered them well, some of them quite fondly. You
handled the part at first when it was the revolutionary part pretty well, I
thought. I've read books, in fact, where it gets pretty slanted one way or the
other, and I thought you presented it pretty fairly. That must have been pretty
hard to do, to present both sides and try to think of them, although I guess in
retrospect maybe it's a little easier than when we were living in that time.
Yeah, retrospect helps a lot there. What point were you trying to make with this
book, if any? Well,
Boy,
that's a hard one.
a modern-day recapitulation of the statement that power corrupts, and absolute
power corrupts absolutely.
Sort of, I was trying to say, hey, you know, it's real easy to say that the
system stinks and we'll wipe it out, but what happens when you do wipe it out?
you know I think this is where every revolutionary since you know the French in
1787 have screwed up thoroughly they say well you know the present system is
corrupt and it's bloated and it stinks and let's throw it out and we'll have
paradise I think that's stupid I'm not a defender of the system but I think the
sort of sweeping burn it down just doesn't work because you wind up building on
rubble. You don't move into a structure that you can clean up and straighten
out. You've got ashes. And I think really those two things were what the book
was all about. The science fictional aspect of that book was the Tisser. Did the
Tisser idea come first and then the story follow? Yes, it did. In fact, the
whole book came from the section titled, What the Inlement, that itself came
from a friend of mine and I, in this workshop I was in, were talking about
collaborating on a story. And we
batted around a few ideas, and I did up a draft of the story, And he said, no, I
don't like that at all. I don't want to have anything to do with it. I said,
well, okay, do you mind if I do? And he said, no, go right ahead. I wrote the
story Liffey in Lament, gave it to my agents who read it and said, well, you
know, this can be difficult for players because it's pretty weird and there's
not a lot of background in there. Why don't you try and turn it into a book, you
know, because there's clearly more to the story than just this one little
sequence. I thought about it did a proposal for Banson Books that consisted of
an outline in that one story the damn editor Sidney Weinberg read the proposal
six weeks later said yeah I want it I'll buy it and you do the deal
the hook that the Tisser provided was the loss of memory and I would think when
you were writing the book that would be the hardest thing to keep consistent
that the people forget what happened and write themselves notes but that doesn't
work, that sort of thing. That's what really hooked me about it. Well, the
hardest part was trying to make it plausible and a review or two has appeared
that, you know, has really faulted the book on those grounds that, you know, for
whatever reason that person just did not believe the tissue. I put so much
effort into trying to make it believable. I think I put more effort into that
than in any other part of the book, trying to make it seem very natural and
trying to provide possible explanations for why this happens, sort of brief
meditations on the nature of reality. For those who accepted the explanation,
who believed it is, I think the book worked. and I think if you can't believe
it, the book just falls flat. Yeah, I thought it was believable, and that's what
made it work. Yeah, it was sometimes obvious what was going to happen. This guy
was going to get wiped out and they were going to forget about him, and in some
of the cases you couldn't wait for that to happen.
It must have been fun to sort of sit there and dream about destroying New Haven,
this town that you've lived in for many years. There's a piece at a time. It was
sheer delight. There's... I was sort of offended by my publisher that they cut
some references in there. We have a building here in town, and maybe when you
edit this, you might want to cut it out, too. That family? It's the Knights of
Columbus building, and I think it's possibly the ugliest structure ever erected
anywhere in America. It's a huge, towering, ugly brick building with massive
turrets at each of the four corners of the building. I mean, it looks like it
was designed to hold off an attack by maddened archers. and I took great
pleasure in destroying that in the book, having it totally obliterated from the
face of the earth. And at one point I had a character bring it back and change
his mind. It was so ugly. But the editor took that, cut it right out. Nope,
sorry, can't do that. But it was fun taking out the rest of the man. Maybe when
you get to Robert Heinlein's stature, you can republish it and put that back in.
I would love to. I would really love to. Of course, Maitre Columbus won't be too
happy, but what can you do? Okay, now I'll move on to the Journeys of McGilfian.
These books I interpret as being humorous. Is that your primary intent?
Well, my primary intent in the McGill Feighan series is to do something light, fast-paced, adventuresome, that nonetheless shows a person of incredible talent growing up and the problems he faces.
It's that aspect of attempts to take lower priority and the adventures of McGill Feighan come first.
I do want a book that people can sit down and read
quickly and really enjoy. And it's not a gloomy book. Bandersnatch and War of
Omission are sort of downbeat books. Mayflies is, in a way, upbeat, but it's got
a lot of depressing stuff in it. whereas McGill Feighan is it's not I do it partly
as a change of pace to write a book that just moves right along from start to
finish has a lot of things happening has a very clear cut hero who is
nonetheless human has his problems and you know nonetheless forges ahead I'm
trying to do a lot of things in the the Feighan series I don't know if I've done
them until I finished the series. Okay, once again, in these books, there's a
bureaucracy that the flingers have to face, so this must be your thing about
bureaucracy surfacing again. That's definitely my bet in law, yeah. That's it
right there. Okay, I guess that's a better term than thing. These books of the
six you've written Are the only ones that have aliens Because of the type of
science fiction that the others are Do you introduce aliens to kind of point out
Various human foibles Are these just exaggerated humans or what? No actually
they're not
I'm really trying in the fan series To create
plausible aliens who aren't so alien that you can't understand them who aren't
so alien that they don't have any reference points with humankind that are
sufficiently alien that you can't really grasp all of them you know I think
Michael Bishop has done some marvelous aliens but they're totally
incomprehensible I mean they're so alien that they just make no sense
whatsoever. In the Feighan series, I'm trying to make aliens who are
comprehensible, and yet who are not human. I really think when we run into alien
species, and sooner or later we will, they will have traits which we recognize
as traits that we have. In lava, I've got these religious fanatics running
around, and they're all I suspect that any sentient race we encounter will, at
least in one stage of their development, have gone through an intensely
religious period. Might still be religious today, if you can tell, but I think
any sentient being has to wonder on its origin, how it came to be, why it came
to be, who created the universe. So, you know, I'm trying not to mirror
humanity, but to suggest that there are alternates with which we can have traits
and attitudes in common.
Sam is another alien sidekick. And I guess the thing there is we get to see him
grow up and mature and how he reacts in an alien environment. Yeah, Sam is...
Poor Sam. I mean, he's going to grow up so mixed up because he's being raised
entirely on earth, well, except for their excursions off world, but he's being
raised by a human being with very human values. But Sam is not human. When he
gets to maturity, he's going to be, oh, heavens. From the tip of his nose to the
tip of his tail, he's going to be about 15 feet long. And he's going to stand
about, oh, what, four and a half feet high at the shoulder? The back part of
him. And his head will be, you know, pretty much about six feet off the ground.
I mean, he's going to be big. He's going to be very alien-looking. And he's
going to have a lot of trouble because he's neither one nor the other. He's not
a wrong guy. He knows nothing of wrong guy culture. But he is not and can never
be a human being. I see lots of interesting problems ahead for Sam. Is he going
to fling McGill into the sun one of these days? That would be telling. I know. I
didn't really expect an answer on that. I sure hope not. As a fan, I hope we see
some more of him. Which brings me to the next question. Are we going to see some
more of McGill and Sam? Yes, definitely. At the moment, there's a McGill story.
It's from his childhood. It's just been published in Berkeley Showcase. There
will be more. Be in books. At the moment, I'm saying seven more, and the series
will end. So it'll go out to at least ten. This may be something you don't want
to put on the air so it doesn't matter, but I'm curious what you think of the
book covers so far for that series, how realistic they are, if that's how you
envision the people, or maybe just book covers in general for what's been your
lot so far. Well,
the theme ones I like. I mean, I hadn't visualized a Gilfjan as looking quite
like the way the covers have them.
But there's something there. The energy tunic, it's not quite what I envisioned.
But it's good, nonetheless. I like a lot of what she's done with those covers. I
think they've helped sales. In paperback marketing, that's what a cover is. It's
a marketing device.
Bandersmatch, I was very angry with the cover because nothing nothing in there
relates to the story Mayflies I loved I thought Mayflies was a great cover
Vincent de Feit did it he read the entire manuscript there are gizmos on the
cover there's one on the back cover of an alien spaceship it is mentioned in one
paragraph buried out there around page 270 but de Feit picked it up and put it
on the cover and I thought it really worked Janet Alicio who has done all of the
Theans and is also doing the new cover for the second edition of Mayflies
canters the story in a different way, I mean she's not 100% technically accurate
in fact and I'm not going to embarrass her on the air we can cut it doesn't
matter okay good, cut this Okay, understood. What's coming up, Janet, she did
caverns, which I thought was great.
And then she did reefs, and it has a picture of Sam as an infant on the cover.
And I saw this in proof. It was much too late to do anything about it. But I
wrote Janet, and I wrote Victoria Schockett, who was the kleinered at Berkeley,
and I said, Hey, what's going on here? Rangons have four legs and two arms. And
here's this cover where he only has two legs and two arms. What happened to the
other two legs? And Janet had missed it completely. Now, by that time, she had
already finished the cover for Lava. And she looked at it, and there's Sam with
two legs and two arms, so she painted in a rock in front of him to hide the
missing two legs. She promises that on number four, Sam will have four legs. I
hope he is pictured on the succeeding covers because if he grows to be that
large we'll get to see him grow assuming he survives the books which brings me
to the next question some of the people that McGill hangs around with don't
survive Nadia and Greystein come to mind these are his friends and they really
take it in the air in these books
Part of that is cold calculation on my part. When you're writing a series, one
of the real difficulties is convincing the reader that your hero is in danger.
When you write one book, there's no problem. Because the reader doesn't know how
it's going to come out. But when you have a series, the reader says, well, hey,
look, you know, he's been through 18 of these adventures now and he's merged on
scathe from every one, so why worry? The reader's emotional involvement in the
story is lessened. But when there is a real danger, when people near and dear to
him are dying, and in some cases dying horribly, it brings the threat much
closer, makes it much more plausible. At this point, McGill has lost a lot of
people who are very close to him. His parents, Nadia and Grace Dean, he's going
to lose north. And, you know, as I say, part of it is cold calculation, but part
of it is also a realistic appraisal of the situation Feighance. He's got this
talent, he's got this mysterious link with this even more mysterious alien
being, and he has people hot on this trail. and it strains you know readers
credibility to have not only Thean but all his friends coming through safe and
sound every time you know the organization they may not be perfect but they're
not total amateurs and they're going to be striking real close to home and they
have so far in the first three books and they'll continue to makes a lot of
sense The other thing I really enjoyed is McGill's misadventures with Gina
Macari. Does that come from personal experience? I mean, it's really frustrating
to read this poor guy going through all this. Of course, it brings back
memories, too. Yeah, I think anybody who's ever been a teenage boy can identify
with a lot of McGill and Gina. Yeah, much of it comes from personal experience.
The feelings of awkwardness, and the way things just never click with someone
you want them to. Yeah.
Okay, so you say you have about seven more books in mind. Are you working on
other things simultaneously, or is this going to be your output for the next few
years? No, I'm going to keep on doing what I've been doing, which is write a
fan book and then a non-fan in back and forth. Seriously, some people seem to be
able to just sit down and write book after book of their serious character. I
can't do that after I wrote Lava right after finishing I think it was the fourth
draft of Reese and by the end of Lava I was ready to kill McGilphean if I'd had
to write a fourth McGilphean right then it would have been flung into the sun on
page one and that would have been it you know the end
so I planned to alternate theme books with things more in the line of
bandersnatch, mayflies, war of omission. I'm working on one of them right now,
in fact, which is driving me absolutely crazy and making me look forward to Feighan
all the more. Okay. That about does it. I was going to make a couple of
comments. One is that the Feighan books remind me, now take this as a compliment
because I'm a farmer fan, but it reminded me a little bit of Venus on the Half
Shell, kind of the humor and the slug at the front that's the god and that sort
of thing. It reminded me just of the tone of that, not the story. But anyway, it
was reminiscent of that, and I really enjoyed it a long time ago. I will take
that into account. The other thing I wanted to ask you, well, the interview is
over. Oh, okay. The other thing I wanted to ask you, and I will tell you this at
the end. I didn't want to tell you at the front, okay? Right. Whenever
Bandersnatch first came out, and I saw the name, it said Kevin O'Donnell, Jr.,
and I thought, I'm a collector, and I have a lot of Ace Doubles, and there's
this guy named K.M. O'Donnell who was really Barry Malzberg. And I really
avoided it. I mean, those books weren't terrible, but it wasn't worth picking
up. And I wondered if anybody else had ever mentioned to you that they thought
you were Barry Malzberg at first. The entire world has mentioned to me. that
they thought it was Barry Maltzberg.
It's been sort of a difficult name to shake.
Barry first used that pseudonym because he was working as a literary agent and
couldn't have his output appear under his own name at the time. And he picked it
as sort of an homage to Kuttner and Moore, who wrote under the pen name Lawrence
O'Donnell. So he took the initials of their last names and used O'Donnell. Well,
I came along four years later. And everybody thought I was some kind of either a
rip-rock artist or buried using yet another pseudonym. But K.M. O'Donnell has
caused me a lot of grief. In fact, after I left Korea and went to college, my
mother, my subscription to FNSF was still going out to Korea. And a very
depressing, nasty KMO Donald story showed up in FNSF. My mother tore it out of
the magazine and sent it to me and scribbled on it. Is this you? You know, and I
had to write back, no, Mom, that's not me, that somebody else is using my name,
but really it's not me. Since then I've had people come up and say, are you
Barry Maltzberg's son? What is this? It's been bothering me now for going on ten
years.